(calm music)
In this video we're gonna calculate
the order total and display it at the bottom,
as well as create a button
so that when we click that we can set ourselves up
for generating the order and sending that over email.
So let's go and,
let's take a look here.
We've got the very bottom of our field set here.
We should have another field set,
and inside of that we'll have a h3 tag
that says, Your Total Is,
and then that's where we're going to put the order total.
Then we'll also give ourselves a button with a type
of button, don't ever forget that.
And then a, oh no, no, no, no, no, it's not type of button,
it's a type of submit,
and we'll just say Order Ahead.
That won't do anything yet, but we will do it.
Now, your order total is,
what we'll do here is we'll make a new function
called calculateOrderTotal,
and then we'll pass it our order
as well as a list of the pizzas
so that we can grab the price and all that good stuff.
So we need to now create that function.
So let's jump into our utils folder,
we'll make a new file, calculateOrderTotal.js,
and then export default function
calculateOrderTotal.
What does that take in?
It takes in our order and the pizzas.
All right, last thing that we need to do is to import this.
Good, so that function is now being imported right here,
and whatever we return from this function
should show up right here.
Your order total is ASDF.
Okay, cool.
So what do we wanna do inside of here?
Well, we need to loop over every single item in the pizza.
Let's actually write this down so we see what we want.
Let's start, say loop over each item
in the order.
Calc the total
for that pizza.
Add that total to the
running total.
All right, so this is a really good use case for reduce.
A reduce is where you take an aray of things
and reduce it down into something else.
So in our case we're gonna take an aray of orders
and we're gonna reduce it down into a single number
that we have.
So what we'll do here is say, we'll say const
total is equal to, we'll take the order
and when we reduce it,
the reduce takes two things.
It takes a callback function
where that callback function gives us the accumulator,
I like to use acc, and the single item in the order.
So this is similar to how map and for each
will give us a single item of the aray.
In this case, reduce gives that to us.
Then, from that,
we need to figure out, oh other thing
is the second argument.
Sorry, a second argument of reduce
is what do you start with?
In our case we're gonna start with zero.
And then, we'll say const pizza is equal to pizzas.find.
So we're gonna find the pizza that we're working with.
Pizza, pizza.id is equal to order
singleOrder.id.
So that will find the pizza in the pizza aray.
We did something similar to that already
when we were listing it out here.
And then we just gonna need to return the running total.
Actually, let's call that runningTotal,
runningTotal instead of accumulator.
So return the runningTotal plus
the actual value of the current pizza that we are on.
So we need to use that function that we made before
called calculatePizzaPrice,
and we have to import it.
And, import didn't work, boom, there we go.
Import calculate pizza price,
and we need to pass that the pizza.price
and the singleOrder.size.
Okay, and then I believe we just need to return
the total from here.
And now, there we go, now as we add items to our order
That value then goes ahead and climbs.
We could also, instead of making a variable
and returning it, we could simply just return
that in one go.
So I'm gonna remove these comments
just 'cause we've done it already.
Okay, that looks good.
Why is this yelling at me?
Pizza is already declared in the upper scope.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I see, it's 'cause we have pizza here
and we have pizza here.
Maybe we should name this singlePizza.
All right, so we've got our values being shown up here.
Next, what we need to do is go back to our order
and simply just wrap that sucker
in our format money function.
And I believe the format money function's already imported
into this file, there we go.
Add, there we go,
it's all being added up.
Okay, cool.
The next one we're going to persist these values.
So if I were to go to Pizza Menu and come back to my order,
it will stay there instead of being gone.